# Week 1 Findings

## From the [paper by M. Cautun et al.](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2014MNRAS.441.2923C/abstract) on Cosmic Web evolution Rien **recommended two pages 2948 - 2950**

### Mass Transport

Structure at certain length scales (cosmic web) to some extent implies an anisotropic medium. How these structures change in time is predicted by **gravitational instability theory** which says that "an overdense region first collapses along the direction with the largest positive eigenvalue of the deformation tensor" which will give rise to a pancake-like distribution. If these regions have a second positive eigenvalue, then a collapse along this axis take place as well and results a filament-like region. Regions with 3 positive eigenvalues contract along all directions and give rise to "fully collapse structures". This predicts a well-defined evolution of the matter distribution.

mass flow: voids -> walls -> filaments -> nodes (**anisotropic collapse theory**)

Some exceptions were found by the paper, but it turns out to be in the underdense regions that were most difficult to categorise properly. Up to 20% of present-day mass in sheets actually comes from filaments (contradictory to the **anisotropic collapse theory**) with a similar mislabelling of void mass content too. So even though the effects are not dominant they are big enough not to be ignored.

#### common mass fraction

A concept that will likely come in handy in what I'm doing is the quantitative analysis of mass transport across morphological components.

$f_{i j}(z_1, z_2) = \frac{M_{(i, z_1) \cap (j,z_2)}  }{M_{(i, z_1)}}$

- $M_{(i, z_1)}$ is the mass in environment i at redshift $z_1$
- $M_{(i, z_1) \cap (j,z_2)}$ is the mass overlap between component i and j, with the first at redshift $z_1$ and the second at redshift $z_2$. This is computed using the id tag of the DM particles.

This quantity can have two meanings, depending on the relationship between $z_1$ and $z_2$:

1. $\mathbf{z_1 < z_2}$: it reveals the fraction of the mass in environment i at $z_1$ that originated from environment j at $z_2$
2. $\mathbf{z_1 > z_2}$: it reveals the fraction of the mass in environment i at $z_1$ which can be found at a later $z_2$ to be contained in environment j

This makes sense because the earlier time you want to go to, the larger the redshift z. Depending on which moment in time we put in the denominator, the fraction switches its meanings.

#### velocity fields

Despite the structures extending over tens of megaparsec, they are quickly evolving objects, far from being static. To really understand mass transport across morphological structures the large-scale velocity field has to be investigated, as this is the main driver behind megaparsec-scale mass flows.

- void regions have a strong outflow, with velocity pointing towards *the sheets that act as void boundaries*
- the direction of inflow is close to normal to the wall examined, which is true for most part of the sheet, except for near large mass agglomerations
- once in sheets, matter outflows towards the filaments that border the wall
- from filaments, the flow is towards the endpoints of the filament, clusters

This agrees well with the mass transport results of the paper, as well as with the **anisotropic collapse theory**

**MOST IMPORTANTLY** :looking at the velocity fields we can clearly see that matter flowing reverse to prediction is nothing more than an artefact/ limitation of the cosmic web identification methods.

## Illustris stuff

I'm going to need an API key to actually access the data through the API. My API key is a7c770df3fb83d41a97bb145b5c9eda4 and I can generate a new on whenever I wish.

## new sources

- Galaxy formations Malcom Longair (master book from cosmic formation, Rien's master course) DOWNLOAD

## from NEXUS: tracing the cosmic web connection

Nexus is actually the algorithm that identifies cosmic web environments: clusters, filaments, walls and voids. It incorporates **density**, **tidal field**, **velocity**, **divergence** and **velocity shear** as tracers of the cosmic web.

## Questions

### for Rien

- what are merger trees and how relevant are they actually to what I'm personally doing
- "for voids, around half of their [...] mass has streamed out into sheets and filaments": what are sheets? are there any other morphological structures that I should know? if so which ones? (ANSWERED: look at the lecture website from Riens webpage!!!)
- do you have actual books where I can learn a little bit more about cosmic structure formation? (like for the master course, are they most relevant?)

## APs

- try to simulate what the fuck are walls and see in 3D how "once in sheets , matter flows towards the filaments that border the wall"
- look up Peebles 1980 for the anisotropic nature of gravitational collapse, the motor behind structure formation of the cosmos
