# Week 2 Findings

## from NEXUS: tracing the cosmic web connection

1. INTRODUCTION

    Nexus is actually the algorithm that identifies cosmic web environments: clusters, filaments, walls and voids. It incorporates **density**, **tidal field**, **velocity**, **divergence** and **velocity shear** as tracers of the cosmic web, which is a useful extension beyond using just density field.

    1. Cosmic web detection

        outlines the history of different methods used to identify cosmic structure as well as their limitations.

    2. Intention and outline

        the intention of the paper is to introduce NEXUS and NEXUS+ and use different fields to identify cosmic structure. **the focus is on filament s and walls since these are the hardest to identify**.\
        Using 4 fields- density, tidal, velocity divergence and velocity shear- allows for 6D information to be used in phase space analysis. Further, NEXUS uses DTFE(Delaunay Tesselation Field Estimator) density and velocity divergence from N-body simulations as inputs.

2. GENERAL FORMALISM FOR MULTISCALE MORPHOLOGICAL ANLYSIS

    NEXUS is a scale-space method for morphologically segmenting the cosmic web into 3 features: clusters, filaments and walls. It's a method initially used in medical imaging to find nodules, vessels and walls in 2D and 3D images. The scale-space formalism can be applied to any input to detect these structures, so it can be used for a range of quantities that are dynamically relevant for web formation.\
    Skipped technical details of this chapter and the next

3. (SKIPPED) NEXUS + WORKINGS

4. TRACER FIELDS: BEYOND DENSITY

    It should be noted that another difference to account for when looking at different algorithms for identifying cosmic structure comes from the fact that they use different fields to trace the structure. (i.e. differences in results also arise out of the usage of different tracer fields). Most used fields are density and tidal fields. **This paper is the first to use density logarithm as a tracer field**.

## for coding

- We will use ssh to be able to use the git version control. I activated a key already and will need to do **in EACH SESSION**:

    1. **eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"** to wake up the ssh agent
    2. **ssh-add ~/.ssh/gitkeyssh** to set up the particular key \
    (I can find these easily by doing ctrl-R to reverse search some keystuff)

- use grep -i wget ~/.bash_history anywhere to look into your history of Terminal commands (without "~/" if you are already in the root folder)x

- type nohup before and & after "downloading big data" command: no hang up - will continue to download data on the machine ieven if you logged out of your ssh sesh (**press Enter afterwards if you can no longer type in any commands**)

## Questions

### for Rien

- has NEXUS/NEXUS+ been related to the structure found by phase-space-based methods?
- where can I actually find NEXUS?
- for DTFE, is the density at the boundary supposed to be 0 like for an isolated universe or similar to the density inside the box?

## APs

- look up scale-space methods
