## what i changed in DTFE

- scr/my_io.cc -> uncommented dat reservation for weights, velocities and scalars

- scr/text_io.cc -> uncommented read velocities and read scalar compon

## learned from Lagrangian perturbation theory

- I would like to explore if the structure has a fractal nature and to what extent

- don't call it simulation: call it computer experiment =))

- the Zel'dovich approximation allows us to determine the structure of the cosmic web in terms of spatial field eigenvalues (what are these?)

## Questions

- I would like to understand the difference between the Universe (space-time) expanding, and objects actually moving apart. Is it just that very dense regions can fight the physical expansion of space with their gravity? and we with our electromagnetic forces?

- anisotropic collapse theory or ellipsoidal collapse model (any other mdoels to be concerned with)?

- Is the CMB radiation actually a gaussian field? If i rememebr correctly, the universe started as a random gaussian field, but because of the small random fluctuations of dense/under-dense regions that would pull in/push out just more matter than their surrounding region, these small differences would be enhanced over time. Further, since the inflation of the Universe happened incredibly fast, these regions of different than average density were expanded tremendously. How far is this from the truth and where can I read about it in a paper for instance?

- what does it mean for the early Universe that CMB has anisotropies?

- what could it possibly be blowing energy into our Universe like in a balloon? is it qualitatively different from the stuff that pulls it back in? Must it come from outside or could it have been built-in at the inception, like the rest of matter? Where was it ages ago then? Was dark energy the same as light energy when all forces were the same? did that even happen?

- is gravitational instabillity == gravitational collapse? does one lead to the other?

## Meeting

- initial perturbations in matter and velocity distribution (the primordial field) amplitude in order of 10^-5; CMB pert in matter, velocity, gravity adn grav potential. the nature of perturbations is that they are gaussian-> stochastic process are the fluctuation. described only by 2nd order characteristics. fluctuations have a spectrum of scales, kind of a superposition (described by a dispersion ): power spectrum of initial mass distributions is the most important ingredient to cosmic structure formation. it tells you the average amplitude (dispersion) on each scale. NEXUS intrinsically pays attention to this. most others take some range and smooths it out- scale dependent. SCale space: mass distrb on a certain scale and you have a fourth dimention: the filter scale-> you filter the field on a continuum of scales and look at the objects (voids, etc.) on each scale; subsequently you compare the signatures and see on what scale the the signature is strongest: this was you can

- using this NEXUS method: geometric method: looks at local geometry to determine mass morphology and takes into account the multiscale nature of the morphology. NEXUS+: when you go to nonlinear stage: distribution becomes highly non-linear gaussian so it uses a log filter: the densities are very different in ; it's also been used and gives OK results.

- gravitational collapse comes from gravitational instability: ina Universe that expands, when you have a slightly more dense region, locally the grav force is stronger and points inward. It can eb so strong sometimes that it stops the expansion of the matter.

- nothing is spherical: look up how collapse happens (how the msaller radius gets enhanced).

- process is anisotropic collapse, an approximation is the homegenous ellipsoid model. (zel-dovich is a different approximation: it predicts the collapses, but not by looking at the object, but by looking at individual mass elements' orbit with lagrangian approximation; you should know this as a physicist!!!) it describes how the mass eleements in th einitial field will move; it has very good results. it assumes that the initial gravitational potential doesn't change, which is  ofc not true.
